README.md, before:

# MacPorts Buildbot Scripts #

This folder contains a collection of scripts that will be run by the MacPorts
buildbot buildslaves for continuous integration and package precompilation.


## General structure ##

There is a driver script mpbb (Macports buildbot) would call the scripts for
the separated steps, using mpbb <step>. The single steps are provided by
separate scripts using the following scheme: mpbb-<step>. The steps that are
needed to be executed to build are the following ones:

1.  Update base without updating the portindex.

        mpbb selfupdate --prefix /opt/local

2.  Checkout ports tree and update the portindex.

        mpbb checkout \
            --prefix /opt/local \
            --workdir "$workdir" \
            --svn-url "$svnurl" \
            --svn-revision "$svnrev"

3.  Print to standard out a list of all subports for one port...

        mpbb list-subports --prefix /opt/local --port "$port"

    ...or for several.

        mpbb list-subports --prefix /opt/local "$port1" "$port2" ...

4.  For each subport listed in step 3:

    a.  Install dependencies.

            mpbb install-dependencies \
                --prefix /opt/local \
                --port "$subport"

    b.  Install the subport itself.

            mpbb install-port --prefix /opt/local --port "$subport"

    c.  Gather archives.

            mpbb gather-archives \
                --prefix /opt/local \
                --port "$port" \
                --workdir "$workdir" \
                --archive-site "$archive_site" \
                --staging-dir "$(pwd)/archive-staging"

    d.  Upload. Must be implemented in the buildmaster.

    e.  Deploy. Must be implemented in the buildmaster.

    f.  Clean up. This must always be run, even if a previous step
        failed.

            mpbb cleanup --prefix /opt/local


## Step Implementation API ##

Step provider scripts are sourced and should provide a number of functions:

    -   help: Should print a help message to stderr. Does not need to deal with
        ending the execution.
    -   $command: Run the actual command.

Some shell variables are available for usage in your subcommand:

    -   $command is the name of the subcommand
    -   $option_archive_site is the URL to the packages archive that will be used
        to check for existing uploaded packages.
    -   $option_staging_dir is the folder where archives that are distributable
        and should be upload must be put.
    -   $option_port is the port that should be installed in the run of mpbb.
    -   $option_prefix is the path to the MacPorts installation to use, as passed
        with --prefix.
    -   $option_svn is the path to the svn binary to use.
    -   $option_svn_revision is the revision number to checkout in the given
        Subversion repository.
    -   $option_svn_url is a URL pointing to a Subversion repository that
        contains the dports and base subdirectories.
    -   $option_workdir is a path to a directory that can be used to store
        temporary data. This data is retained between builds. You can, for
        example, store a Subversion checkout there.

Commit message:

mp-buildbot: Rewrite first half of README
git-svn-id: https://svn.macports.org/repository/macports/contrib/mp-buildbot@151184 d073be05-634f-4543-b044-5fe20cf6d1d6

README.md, after:

# MacPorts Buildbot Scripts #

This is a collection of scripts that will be run by the MacPorts
Project's Buildbot buildslaves for continuous integration and
precompilation of binary archives.

## General Structure ##

The `mpbb` ("MacPorts Buildbot") driver script defines a subcommand for
each step of a build. These subcommands are implemented as separate
scripts named `mpbb-SUBCOMMAND`, but they are not intended to be
standalone programs and should not be executed as such. Build steps
should only be run using the `mpbb` driver.

The defined build steps are:

1.  Update base without updating the portindex.

        mpbb selfupdate --prefix /opt/local

2.  Checkout ports tree and update the portindex.

        mpbb checkout \
            --prefix /opt/local \
            --workdir "$workdir" \
            --svn-url "$svnurl" \
            --svn-revision "$svnrev"

3.  Print to standard output a list of all subports for one port...

        mpbb list-subports --prefix /opt/local --port "$port"

    ...or for several.

        mpbb list-subports --prefix /opt/local "$port1" "$port2" ...

4.  For each subport listed in step 3:

    a.  Install dependencies.

            mpbb install-dependencies \
                --prefix /opt/local \
                --port "$subport"

    b.  Install the subport itself.

            mpbb install-port --prefix /opt/local --port "$subport"

    c.  Gather archives.

            mpbb gather-archives \
                --prefix /opt/local \
                --port "$port" \
                --workdir "$workdir" \
                --archive-site "$archive_site" \
                --staging-dir "$(pwd)/archive-staging"

    d.  Upload. Must be implemented in the buildmaster.

    e.  Deploy. Must be implemented in the buildmaster.

    f.  Clean up. This must always be run, even if a previous step
        failed.

            mpbb cleanup --prefix /opt/local


## Step Implementation API ##

Step provider scripts are sourced and should provide a number of functions:

    -   help: Should print a help message to stderr. Does not need to deal with
        ending the execution.
    -   $command: Run the actual command.

Some shell variables are available for usage in your subcommand:

    -   $command is the name of the subcommand
    -   $option_archive_site is the URL to the packages archive that will be used
        to check for existing uploaded packages.
    -   $option_staging_dir is the folder where archives that are distributable
        and should be upload must be put.
    -   $option_port is the port that should be installed in the run of mpbb.
    -   $option_prefix is the path to the MacPorts installation to use, as passed
        with --prefix.
    -   $option_svn is the path to the svn binary to use.
    -   $option_svn_revision is the revision number to checkout in the given
        Subversion repository.
    -   $option_svn_url is a URL pointing to a Subversion repository that
        contains the dports and base subdirectories.
    -   $option_workdir is a path to a directory that can be used to store
        temporary data. This data is retained between builds. You can, for
        example, store a Subversion checkout there.
